[Music]
fifteen ways to search google that 96%
of people don't know about Google
searches not only a powerful search tool
but also the best friend for millions of
people it is always there for you
except for those times when you have no
internet connection that's scary it can
help you with anything it will find the
lyrics to that song you heard on the
radio but only got you meet forever rain
share the recipe for the most delicious
pie and recommend the best restaurant
around students can't go without it and
it is the key source of information for
most adults too but more often than not
we have to sit through a vast body of
knowledge to get the information we need
and this can take hours rather than
minutes here's a list of the most
effective methods and tricks for
searching Google to help you find the
information you're looking for in just a
couple of clicks if you can't imagine
your life without Google give this video
a thumbs up watch this video till the
end to see a cool bonus we have for you
[Music]
15 either this or that
sometimes we're not sure that we've
correctly remembered the information or
the name we need to start our search but
this doesn't have to be a problem simply
put in a couple of potential variations
of what you're looking for and separate
them by typing the vertical bar symbol
instead of this symbol you can also use
or then it's easy enough to choose the
result that makes the most sense
imagine this your friend mentioned she
wants to get the same haircut as
Jennifer something was in Aniston or
Lawrence Google will show you both of
them at once so you can guess by
description your friend gave you which
is the Jennifer's it was how else can
this trick be helpful
imagine you are deciding which
smartphone to buy make Google find and
describe both options at once just type
in buy cheap Android or iPhone
number 14 searching using synonyms our
language is rich in synonyms sometimes
this can be very convenient when doing
research online if you need to find
websites on a given subject rather than
those that include a specific phrase add
the tilde symbol to your search for
example if you search for the term
healthy tilde food you'll get results
about the principles of healthy eating
cooking recipes as well as healthy
dining options see different people have
different ways of describing things if
you make Google search using synonyms
you won't have to type in your search
query many times before you get to the
point more answers means more options at
once
number thirteen searching within
websites sometimes you read an
interesting article on a website and
find yourself subsequently wanting to
share it with your friends or simply
reread it the easiest way to find the
desired piece of information again is to
search within the website to do this
type the address of the site then a
keyword or entire phrase from the
article and it should come up
immediately our website for example is a
great source of information on basically
anything so why not use it try typing in
brightside dot me something make that
something a salad and it will show you
the best salad recipes we've shared
[Music]
number twelve the power of the asterisk
when your cunning memory decides not to
let us remember that one keyword phrase
or number we need to find what we're
looking for you can turn to the powerful
asterisk symbol just use it in the place
of the word or phrase you can't remember
and you should be able to find the
results you're looking for for example
you want to see that science fiction
thriller that has too many numbers in
its name
you got the 11 point 22 but forgot the
63 if you replace it with an asterisk
Google will find the whole thing for you
number 11 when lots of words are missing
if it's the lengthier half of the phrase
you can't remember rather than a single
keyword try writing out the first and
last words and putting a round plus the
approximate number of missing words
between them imagine you want to play it
cool and show your knowledge of poetry
everyone loves poetry right or at least
pretends to anyway you might not
remember the author's name but you do
remember he wrote something beautiful
about him wandering or was it as a cloud
try typing in I wandered around or cloud
Google will win this guessing game and
show you the whole poem by William woods
word number 10 using a number range
sometimes we urgently need to get the
list of events that occurred during a
certain period of time to do so you can
add a time frame to your search query
with the help of three dots between the
dates for example if we want to find out
about scientific discoveries during the
20th century we can write scientific
discoveries 1900 dot dot 2000 yes it is
easy like that it also works with other
numbers you can try finding products
within a certain price range for example
for that try googling GoPro Hero 5 $100
dot dot dot 300 in that case don't
forget to include an indicator of what
you measure the amount
number nine searching for a title or URL
to help find the keywords and name of an
article type in title colon before the
search term without any spaces between
them to find the words from a URL use in
URL : it is important that you make no
spaces between words and punctuation
number 8 finding similar websites if you
found something you really like online
and want to find similar websites type
in related colon and then the address of
the site again without a space between
them for example if you thought Nike
website has a lot of cool stuff to offer
but you want to see more options you can
ask Google to find them for you it will
easily find related websites number 7
pull phrases framing the search term
within quotation marks is the simplest
and most effective way to find something
specific and in the exact order you type
in it for example if you type in the
words
I'm picking up Good Vibrations without
quotation marks the search engine will
show the results where those words
appear in any order on a website not in
the specific order in which you type
them however if you type I'm picking up
good vibrations in quotation marks
you'll get only those results where
these words appear only in the order you
type them in this is a great way to find
the lyrics to a song when you only know
one line from it we all just need to
find song lyrics from time to time don't
wait click the like button if you use
Google for that
number six unimportant search works to
remove unimportant search words from
your query simply write a minus symbol
before each one for example if you want
to find a site about interesting books
but you aren't looking to buy them you
can write the following interesting
books minus five
number five searching images using
images imagine you were browsing the
internet and suddenly saw the picture of
the most beautiful coat ever or maybe
your friend posted from some incredibly
fancy cafe but has not added a location
market wants to keep it secret
Google can solve both mysteries for you
all you have to do is save the picture
hit the camera button on Google Images
attach the picture or paste its URL
Google will then find similar images on
the web number for the finding words and
learning where they come from any
language including English is constantly
developing so new words appear and old
words become history Google will help
you to find them all easily if you type
in define and a colon with no space
before the word it will give you the
word definition so you will know what
the word means
without having to go through hundreds of
search results before you find out or
guess this trick also works with slang
words and acronyms another linguistic
tool you can try is typing in etymology
colon period this way you will find out
where the word comes from try both of
these tools with the word mortgage comma
for example
number three finding a specific file
sometimes you know exactly what you need
and in what shape you wanted maybe you
have already seen a great PDF or
PowerPoint online and now you need it
again or you just want to look at all
the options Google will help you find
the right file if you want to find a
colorful PDF on cat breeds for example
type in cat breeds file type : PDF you
will get access to thousands of PDFs on
the topic in no time
number two using Google as a spell
checker this trick might seem basic but
it is still very useful you know how
Google politely offers you the correct
way to spell words when you make a
mistake by accident you can make the
best use of its natural spelling talent
if you are not sure how to write this or
that word try typing it in search
queries Google will help you out use the
word in a word combination for a better
result number one tracking your packages
you already know you can use Google to
look for all types and kinds of files
and turns out it can also help you track
your package real quick instead of doing
the usual thing and going to the
shipping company website just type your
tracking number in a search query it
will work with UPS USPS and FedEx now
you will always know where your packages
you won't have to navigate any websites
or wait for them to load finally it's
time for our bonus trick you did some
hard work learning to use Google like a
pro so now it's time to play if you
search Atari breakout on Google Images
the famous brick breaker will start
right there
enjoy it we hope you enjoyed this video
and we'll try all these tricks out let
us know how it went in the comments also
if this video gets 5,000 likes we are
going to share more fun tricks you can
try out on your computer subscribe to
our channel not to miss any updates and
always stay on the bright side of life
[Music]